[Music]
six warning signs you're dealing with
someone toxic
we'd all like to believe the best of
people
unfortunately that can get us in trouble
sometimes
toxic people do exist and chances are
we've met one or two
sometimes they might not realize they're
causing harm to others
on other occasions they're fully aware
of the power they hold over other people
and actively intend to do harm
fortunately there are warning signs you
can look for to see if the person you're
dealing with
is a toxic person before we tell you
about these important warning signs
make sure you click the subscribe button
and turn on notifications to be the
first to watch our videos
now pay close attention to all these
warning signs of toxic people
as this information could be exactly
what you need in your life right now
[Music]
number one toxic people play the victim
most of us are guilty of throwing a pity
party for ourselves every once in a
while
things happen and sometimes we just want
to feel sad about it
but sooner or later we snap out of it
focus on finding solutions and look on
the bright side of life
other people are in a constant state of
pity party have you met them
you probably know or have known a person
who thought the world was out to get
them
people who struggle with the victim
mentality don't think they have power
over their lives
and they blame other people and
circumstances for how unhappy they are
they also avoid responsibility like the
plague
imagine that you're walking down the
street and you see a man take a tumble
you rush to help him stand up and you
notice that luckily he just has a small
scrape on his knee
he thanks you and asks you if you can
drive him to the pharmacy
so you take him to the pharmacy he then
asks you to help him with another chore
and then another this is an example of
how playing the victim can give someone
the power to control another person
they prey on your feelings of empathy
and goodwill to see how much money
time and energy they can take from you
have you ever been in a situation where
you believed someone owed you an apology
but by the end of the conversation you
ended up apologizing instead
that is a classic victim attitude in
which they flip the situation
ask yourself these questions do you try
to uplift someone while all they can do
is put themselves down
do you try to offer constructive
criticism but the person acts
defensively
do you get blamed for someone else's
problems
if the answer is yes you might be
dealing with someone with a victim
mentality
number two emotional abuse
emotional abuse can be one of the most
painful forms of violence and a killer
of self-esteem
it creates scars that can last longer
than physical ones
and it's difficult to spot it can leave
you with depression
confusion a lack of motivation
self-blame and low self-esteem
you might be a victim of emotional abuse
or abusing someone you love without
meaning to
emotional abuse can be verbal yelling
belittling
criticism and accusing it can also be
subtle
intimidation manipulation and the silent
treatment
ask yourself these questions to spot if
you're in an emotionally abusive
situation
do you find yourself walking on
eggshells around someone
[Music]
does it seem as if this person treats
you like a child
does this person routinely ridicule and
disregard your opinions
thoughts and feelings does this person
make you feel responsible for all the
problems in your relationship
if you answered yes you might be the
victim of emotional abuse
if possible you need to distance
yourself from this person
[Music]
number three pathological liars
no one is perfect when it comes to lying
we might tell
small lies or lie by omission
pathological liars take lying to the
extreme
a pathological liar is someone who
constantly tells lies
usually in an effort to protect their
image
they are masters of manipulation and can
lie straight to your face
they tend to be impulsive people with a
need to impress
their lies might not always have a
purpose and sometimes they might lie to
you just because they can
dealing with the pathological liar can
leave you feeling confused
betrayed and paranoid it might even make
you question your sanity
sometimes pathological lying can be a
symptom of more serious problems
like borderline personality disorder
narcissistic personality disorder
and depression these disorders require
professional medical help and can be
dangerous when left unaddressed
do you know a pathological liar ask
yourself these questions
have you caught someone lying several
times
does someone constantly lie to you about
small and mundane things
has someone that lied to you expressed
zero remorse
number four toxic people seek to control
some toxic people can be master
manipulators and they are clever about
hiding their true intentions
controlling people might want to know
where you are and who you are with
they might be vocal about it or try to
control you in more
subtle ways in extreme
cases if the person is a narcissist or
sociopath
they might be completely incapable of
feeling remorse and recognizing their
bad behavior
they might have learned such behavior
through an unconscious drive called the
repetition compulsion
it is a psychological drive to repeat
and enact the same traumatic events that
you experienced as a child
to a certain extent the repetition
compulsion explains why if one or both
of your parents were controlling you
you'll try to enforce control over your
partner or children
ask yourself the following questions to
see if you are dealing with
a controlling person does someone need
to know where you are at all times
does someone micromanage your work does
someone pull you away from your loved
ones to keep you all to themselves
[Music]
number five people who don't respect
boundaries
imagine that you draw a line on the
floor and ask a person not to cross it
however instead of respecting your
wishes they cross your boundary just to
see if they can
to test you or to actually cause you
harm
to properly function as civil members of
society
some boundaries seem to be obvious to
most of us respecting someone's personal
space
private property and right to free
speech but
certain people project their
vulnerabilities and insecurities onto
another person
in the form of anger and bullying they
are incapable of respecting boundaries
they can't process their own toxicity so
they deal with it by putting it onto
someone else
a perfect example of this is bullies
bullies want to push your buttons until
you break
they want to step into your personal
space destroy your private property
and break your will they need to make
someone feel small
so they can feel big bullying happens in
all sorts of environments
not just school it could be happening in
your home or
office check to see if you are dealing
with a bully
does someone constantly play with your
weaknesses to pinpoint them
does someone continue to cross your
boundaries after you have asked them not
to
does someone intimidate you by entering
your personal space
is someone gossiping about you or
humiliating you
number six negative people
everyone can feel negative sometimes
picture that you are heading into a work
meeting
feeling happy and confident with
yourself then you see a negative
coworker walk in
the whole team might have been feeling
happy and optimistic at the start of the
meeting
but one negative co-worker has the power
to bring the whole team down if left
unchecked
as the proverb goes a rotten apple
spoils the barrel
and that can clearly be seen when it
comes to negativity
before you know it the whole barrel is
infected some people wish to share their
negativity with the world and it can
spread like wildfire
are you dealing with a negative person
check with these questions
does your mood drop after interacting
with a particular person
does someone walk into the room and you
immediately feel put out
is there someone that can only speak of
bad news or negative stories
is there someone who complains nonstop
while watching this video did you
recognize yourself as a toxic person
test yourself with the following
questions do you secretly wish that
something bad would happen to someone
do you enjoy sharing your tragic stories
with others
do you have a tendency to be jealous or
possessive
if you answered yes there are things you
can do
try attending counseling to change your
behaviors and be a positive influence in
the world
if you think you've been dealing with a
toxic person you can try to do the
following things
maintain positive boundaries be
assertive about your needs and values
disengage from people who make you feel
bad about yourself
speak to a counselor we all deserve to
live in peace and happiness
if you find yourself in one of these
situations we hope you can take the
necessary steps to reach for a more
positive situation you know any other
warning signs to look out for share this
video with someone you think might be at
risk of toxicity and share your thoughts
in the comments section
and please don't forget to click
subscribe to always be in the know with
brightside
you